#summary How to Compile v1.2.5 branch thread-fixes

Here is a list of the stable compilations that have been achieved with v1.2.5, branch thread-fixes:

= Mac OS X =

On Mac OS X 10.7 Lion, install [http://mxcl.github.io/homebrew/ Homebrew] as described in the instructions.

From the Mac OS X terminal, install gcc 4.7:
{{{
brew tap homebrew/versions
brew install gcc-4.7
}}}

or gcc 4.8 instead, the second command should be:
{{{
brew install gcc-4.8
}}}

Follow the instructions in the section [CompileThreadFixes#Checkout_and_Compile_RF-ACE Checkout and Compile RF-ACE]

= Linux (Debian) =

To install gcc-4.7, you can search for and install the package:

{{{
sudo aptitude search gcc-4.7
sudo apt-get install gcc-4.7
}}}

at this point, gcc-4.7 should be available.  Test whether the default gcc is pointing to this version
{{{
gcc --version
}}}

If it is not pointing at this version, call g++-4.7 directly by making the same change to the Makefile as described in the [CompileThreadFixes#Checkout_and_Compile_RF-ACE Checkout and Compile RF-ACE] section.

= Linux (Red Hat/CentOS) =

To install gcc-4.7, you can search for and install the package:

{{{
sudo yum search gcc-4.7
sudo yum install gcc-4.7
}}}

at this point, gcc-4.7 should be available.  Test whether the default gcc is pointing to this version
{{{
gcc --version
}}}

If it is not pointing at this version, call g++-4.7 directly by making the same change to the Makefile as described in the [CompileThreadFixes#Checkout_and_Compile_RF-ACE Checkout and Compile RF-ACE] section.

= Checkout and Compile RF-ACE =

Checkout the rf-ace code to a local directory using the instructions in [Manual].

To compile rf-ace successfully, edit the Makefile in the root directory of the project.  Change the first line to:
{{{
COMPILER = g++-4.7
}}}

or g++-4.8 is you've installed that.

no you may run 
{{{
make
make test
}}}

from the terminal.  Tests on Mac OS X 10.7 and Linux Mint 14 using these instructions have been all successful, with the output: 
{{{
ALL DONE! 4887 tests run: 4887 successes and 0 failures
}}}

For questions about these specific instructions, you can email `codefor@systemsbiology.org`